---
layout: post
title:  "Lebanese Stuffed Squash (Koussa, Khoussa, Koosa)"
author: "Eat with mom"
date:   2021-04-11 09:32:23 -0800
categories: Healthy
country: Lebanon
image: khoussa.jpg
featured: true
---

Ingredients

1.5 lbs. lean ground sirloin
2 large red onions
1 cup fresh mint leaves
1/4 sweet red pepper or red bell pepper
3/4 cup long grain rice, uncooked
1 1/2 T coarse salt
2 tsp. pepper
2 tsp. allspice (optional)
2 tsp.cumin (optional)
4-5 cups tomato juice
2 T butter
1/3 cup olive oil

Preparation

Wash and dry the squash. Gently scoop out the inside with a corer. Scoop out as much of the squash as possible without poking holes. Once done, set aside.

dd mint, 1/2 a large onion, and red pepper in a food processor and mix until almost pureed. Set aside.

In a bowl, add the top sirloin, rice, allspice, cumin, 1 T salt, pepper and pureed mixture. Thoroughly mix until well blended (it is best to use your hands for this).

To stuff the squash, take a little bit of the meat and rice mixture and gently fill the squash. The squash should be completely filled but not too tightly or else the rice will not cook. Fill all squash and set aside. If there is any of the meat and rice mix left over, consider stuffing a potato or just making some meat balls to add in with the squash.

In a pot, place the squash as close to standing upward as possible so the meat does not fall out. Add the tomato juice, butter, and 1/2 T salt and bring to a boil. Bring the heat down to a simmer and cook for 40 minutes.

In a pan with olive oil, slice the remaining onions and saute until translucent. They can be added directly to the pot or placed on top of the squash when serving.