---
layout: post
title:  "Kugelhopf"
author: "Eat with mom"
date:   2021-01-04 04:20:00 -0800
categories: Desserts
country: Australia
image: kugelhopf.jpg
featured: true
---

This recipe was shared by my friend Sam from Australia: My mum Jolanda is a fantastic cook, very influenced by her Istrian/Austro-Hungarian heritage. Mum's now in her late 80s and still cooks every day. This Kugelhopf recipe was always her go-to recipe when friends or family called in for coffee at short notice. By the time they arrived, the cake was ready to eat just out of the oven. It's also one of my go-to recipes.

**Ingredients**

* 300g self raising flour
* 150g white sugar
* 3 eggs
* 100g butter
* 1 teaspoon grappa (optional)
* 1 cup milk
* 1 lemon, grated

**Preparation**

* Pre-heat oven at 180 degrees Celcius (350 degrees F)
* Melt butter in a bundt cake tin over a small saucepan over heat. Allow the butter to cool.
* Grate lemon
* Sift flour in a large bowl and the add the sugar, then eggs, milk, lemon, grappa and lastly butter to it. If the butter is still warm don't let it come into contact with the eggs. Use a stick blender or a mixmaster to gently blend the mixture together for a very short period just so the ingredients are mixed together.
* Crease the sides of the cake tin with the melted butter that's remained in the tin, and dust lightly with breadcrumbs.
* Spoon in the mixture  and bake for 45 - 50 minutes. The top of the cake should be golden brown.
* Allow to cool before turning over onto a plate. Dust lightly with sifted icing sugar Serve it when it's still slightly warm or cooled down. Keeps well in a storage container in a cool spot for up to 6 or 7 days,